# OAuth authorization scheme 


OAuth as an authorization scheme is an **authorization layer** designed to allow third party applications to access specific protected resources on Server, without broad access to all of the user's secure resources on that server, or divulging the user's _credential_s.  The client service requests authorization from the resource owner for specific access rights, which the owner grants through the issuing of access tokens using an authorization server; the access token then can be used to validate the client, granting it access to specific resources owned by the user. 

## OAuth2 client application token flow 
For OAuth2 in particular, the client application first sends authorization request to the owner indirectly or indirectly; owner returns one of several distinct types of grants (e.g. authorization code grant, implicit grant) depending on the method of request by the client. The client applicatoin then requests an **access token** from the authorization server with the grant, and if the grant is validated by the authorization server, a access token is issued to the client.  The client application, with the access token, then can request some resource owned by the user, which is served by the resource server.  OAuth2 token flow has other features and variations, such as authorization using client credentials to some protected resources that previously has been granted access to the client, or the ability to renew access to expired authorization using prearranged refresh tokens. 

## OAuth2 distinctions from cookies 
OAuth2 and **HTTP cookies** can both be used to grant access to services on resource servers.  Authentication cookies, for example, is a common type of HTTP cookie used to signify user's login status, so that when the browser sends the cookie along with the request, the server would determine whether to present sensitive information of the user to the browser.  A **session cookie** is initialized by the web-server, starting a visit session when the browser makes a cookie-less request; where as the client application normally initiates the authentication process by requesting a grant. OAuth2 access tokens normally have expiration associated with it, and would no longer be valid after a discrete period of time, unless a refresh token exists; session cookies do not have explicit expiration associated with it, but expires whenn web browser closes.  Session cookies can also be used by servers to track activities and access patterns of the end user.  OAuth2 also provides multiple types of token flows for different types of access patterns. 
